GROUP ID
---------
43


Dataset choice

Which dataset from the curated list did you choose?  If you plan to use more than one, select the
primary one.  If you selected a different dataset, use the open option and list it down, and you'll
 need to discuss with our instruction staff.

It's highly encouraged that you select one of the curated datasets as your primary project
data source.

Details of the curated datasets are on the CS3244 Project Datasets document: http://www.comp.nus.edu.sg/~cs3244/AY2122S1/datasets.html

---------------------------------

DeepWeeds

---------------------------------


Dataset description

Write in your own words (1-2 sentences) what this dataset describes.

Rubric:

a) Does your description specify features and instances?

b) Do you describe the source and reliability of the data?

---------------------------------

The dataset consists of 17,509 images(feature) of eight different weed species (labels), endemic to Australia, with surrounding flora, from eight rangeland environments across northern Australia. This dataset was funded by the Australian Government Department of Agriculture and Water Resources Control Tools and Technologies for Established Pest Animals and Weeds Programme. The data was collected under strict conditions, using a specific data logging instrument with a high resolution colour camera developed to mimic the target robotic platform and ensure consistency.


---------------------------------

Project Title

Please be concise, relevant and descriptive.

---------------------------------

Weed Classification for Robotic Weed Control


---------------------------------

Motivation

Explain why this project is interesting and important.

Rubric:

a) Does your motivation clearly describe a problem?

b) Does it justify the problem’s significance? What are the benefits of addressing this problem? Who benefits from solving it?

---------------------------------

Weed infestation is a key menace in farming, with significant differences between treatments for different weed types. It is estimated that farmers in Australia alone spend AUD $1.5 billion every year on weed control activities and lose $2.5 billion in agricultural production. 

Direct application in robotic weed control. Increase productivity yield in agriculture (spec. Precision agri), better financial cushion for small farmers, increased food security. 
Weeds that emerge with or shortly after the crop can substantially reduce yield unless controlled through cultivation or other means.

---------------------------------

Statement of the Problem/Task

A statement of the problem, issue, or task that you’re interested in studying. In particular,
try to formulate the key questions (2 to 4 questions is probably a good number) that your group will answer in the project.

As this proposal document is self-contained, you should restate your project topic and domain.

The information you provide here will also help to assign appropriate reviewers.

Rubric:

a) Does the proposal outline a problem statement, issue, or task that the group is interested
in studying?

b) Does it formulate a few (2 to 4) questions that the group proposes to address?

---------------------------------

We will test 2-4 different models (CNN, MLP, DT, Random Forest, Ensemble) and make comparisons on accuracy, training time, and other evaluation metrics.

Which model has the highest accuracy?
Which model has the highest/lowest training time?
Will the use of an ensemble between deep learning and non deep learning models help improve the accuracy / training time?


---------------------------------

General Approach

A high-level description of the general approach you’ll use to address the questions.
Survey on the current progress on the problem/task. Sketch out what evidence you are planning
to gather (e.g., how you can answer the questions through experiments on the data).

Rubric:

a) Does the proposal contain a high-level draft description of the general approach proposed to address the questions?

b) Does it include preliminary plans for evaluation, data gathering? I.e., how the team plans to answer the questions through experiments on data.

---------------------------------

Comparative study of several ready implementations of existing models to benchmark, replicating these results.
Identifying scope for generalisation through ensemble methods.
Current techniques employed.


---------------------------------



Evaluation

Include how you will evaluate your project.
Propose what your team thinks is a satisfactory project outcome (C grade) and an excellent project
outcome (A grade).

Rubric:

a) Does the proposal contain a high-level draft description of the general approach proposed
to address the questions?

b) Does it include preliminary plans for evaluation, data gathering?
I.e., how the team plans to answer the questions through experiments on data.

---------------------------------

Feature Engineering: 
C grade - Use only raw RGB values from images to do the learning.
A grade - Experiment with different features of images such as image edges, image texture, hsv color space. Make relevant observations about the data.

Model training:
C grade - Models with basic hyperparameters.
A grade - Models with fine-tuned hyperparameters and reasoning behind these hyperparameters. Ensemble models.

Model evaluation:
C grade - Simply look at models' accuracy.
A grade - Look at various evaluation metrics (confusion matrix, precision, recall, F1) and explain their implications.

---------------------------------


Additional Resources

A list of resources you have/need to conduct the project.
This includes additional reading, software, datasets, code (Github link), etc.,
beyond your chosen dataset.  Are these resources public? How are you planning to get these resources?

Rubric

a) Does the proposal give a short list of resources the team plans to use to execute the project (inclusive of readings, software, datasets, etc.)?

b) Does the team describe any strategy for getting the resources?

---------------------------------

Readings
Overview of deep learning techniques for Weed Detection
https://paperswithcode.com/paper/a-survey-of-deep-learning-techniques-for-weed/review/

Libraries 
https://opencv.org/
https://scikit-image.org/
https://pytorch.org/

Software
Google Colab



---------------------------------

Schedule / Role Assignment

A schedule of work indicating the dates by which you plan to complete components of the project.
Make sure the schedule is plausible.

You may find that a table format with the remaining weeks of the course helpful to describe this goal.

Rubric:

a) A schedule indicating dates by which the team plans to complete the project components?

b) An assignment of the team members to the deliverables (inclusive of peer reviewing duties)?

c) Is the schedule feasible given the timeline, expertise and load of the team members?

d) For projects with large data sources, does the team propose a way to scope the data or
problem accordingly to make it feasible?

---------------------------------

Week 6 - Read Paper (used as a benchmark) 
Recess Week - Data Exploration
Week 7 - Feature Engineering
Week 8 - Feature Engineering
Week 9 - Testing Different Models
Week 10 - Testing Different Models
Week 11 - Testing Different Models
Week 12 - Consolidate
Reading week - Preparation for presentation
Exam week - Final presentation

Models: CNN, MLP, DT, Random Forest, kNN, Ensemble

Tasks
Common: Read Paper, Data Exploration, Feature Engineering, Preparing for presentation, Peer Critique

Simon: CNN
Jerry: MLP
Wrik: Ensemble
Shaun: Random Forest
Harry: DT
Li Chuan: kNN


---------------------------------