GROUP ID
---------
50


Dataset choice

Which dataset from the curated list did you choose?  If you plan to use more than one, select the
primary one.  If you selected a different dataset, use the open option and list it down, and you'll
 need to discuss with our instruction staff.

It's highly encouraged that you select one of the curated datasets as your primary project
data source.

Details of the curated datasets are on the CS3244 Project Datasets document: http://www.comp.nus.edu.sg/~cs3244/AY2122S1/datasets.html

---------------------------------

 Facial Expression and Recognition 2013 Dataset

---------------------------------


Dataset description

Write in your own words (1-2 sentences) what this dataset describes.

Rubric:

a) Does your description specify features and instances?

b) Do you describe the source and reliability of the data?

---------------------------------

The dataset we’re using is Facial Expression and Recognition 2013 (FER 2013) which can be found in the Wolfram Data Repository. This dataset was created by gathering the results of a Google image search of each emotion and synonyms of the emotions by Pierre-Luc Carrier and Aaron Courville (Quinn et.al). In terms of its usability, a relatively high score of 8.8 out of 10 was achieved based on an uploaded version of the dataset in Kaggle. The FER-2013 dataset contains 35,685 images of both posed and unposed headshots in 48x48 pixels greyscale. There are approximately 28,000 images used in the training set while the rest are split for evaluation and testing purposes. Each image in this dataset is classified under 7 categories - Angry, Disgust, Fear, Happy, Sad, Surprise, and Neutral. 


---------------------------------

Project Title

Please be concise, relevant and descriptive.

---------------------------------

Human Emotion Detection Using Machine Learning


---------------------------------

Motivation

Explain why this project is interesting and important.

Rubric:

a) Does your motivation clearly describe a problem?

b) Does it justify the problem’s significance? What are the benefits of addressing this problem? Who benefits from solving it?

---------------------------------

Customer satisfaction is a part of measure in customer service. It has been one of the most prominent ways used to gauge the performance of a business. According to a study done by Paul Williams and Earl Naumann (2011), there is a strong association between satisfaction levels and a business’ financial and market performance. With the recent COVID-19 pandemic limiting our social interaction, many businesses have opted for AI and machine learning applications in customer services due to their efficiency and for safety reasons. However, machines do not have innate emotion reading abilities, unlike humans. This can result in loss of information or miscommunications that can hinder customers’ interactions and transactions. To improve human-computer interactions, businesses need to come up with a way to overcome this issue. One way to evaluate human emotions is by observing a person’s facial expressions. Facial expressions play a huge role in conveying emotions in human interaction. Research by Xu et al. (2017) concluded that facial expressions can display emotions and indicate an individual’s intentions within a social situation and, hence, are extremely important for social interaction. As such, we believe it is of great interest to observe emotions through facial expressions as a way to evaluate customers’ satisfaction levels. 

---------------------------------

Statement of the Problem/Task

A statement of the problem, issue, or task that you’re interested in studying. In particular,
try to formulate the key questions (2 to 4 questions is probably a good number) that your group will answer in the project.

As this proposal document is self-contained, you should restate your project topic and domain.

The information you provide here will also help to assign appropriate reviewers.

Rubric:

a) Does the proposal outline a problem statement, issue, or task that the group is interested
in studying?

b) Does it formulate a few (2 to 4) questions that the group proposes to address?

---------------------------------

Machine’s limited ability to recognize and react to human emotions can hinder human-machine interactions. The rising number of self-service incentives as a result of the pandemic has greatly affected the way people interact in businesses. Although machine learning and AI assistants come with many perks, they still have many limitations such as the lack of emotional understanding which is a crucial part of human interactions. Improving the way machines behave to generate an agreeable environment for customers is a great way to encourage them to invest their time and resources into a business. The main aim of our project is to create a robust model to detect, recognize, and classify emotions from facial expression images in order to improve the existing human-computer interface (HCI). One way to approach this is to make use of a machine-learning algorithm to detect, recognize, and classify emotions based on facial expression images. The key questions and challenges we will be addressing are:
Which emotion(s) are less complicated to detect, recognize, and classify from images using machine learning?
Which emotion(s) are more challenging to detect, recognize, and classify from images using machine learning?
Which kind of learning algorithm will be best for classifying human emotion?
How accurately can a machine detect, recognize, and classify emotions from facial expressions?


---------------------------------

General Approach

A high-level description of the general approach you’ll use to address the questions.
Survey on the current progress on the problem/task. Sketch out what evidence you are planning
to gather (e.g., how you can answer the questions through experiments on the data).

Rubric:

a) Does the proposal contain a high-level draft description of the general approach proposed to address the questions?

b) Does it include preliminary plans for evaluation, data gathering? I.e., how the team plans to answer the questions through experiments on data.

---------------------------------

- Implement various learning algorithms, and compare the accuracy of each model in detecting various emotions
- We will gather data from the FER dataset, and split the dataset for training and testing purposes. We plan to test out existing computer vision models and compare their performance to choose the best model. For a more robust model, we will also test it using a realistic dataset (e.g. coloured and uncropped images)
- Observe the performance of models in detecting emotions for a different range of ethnicity and age groups to account for possible bias
- Observe which emotions are closely related by observing the how closely related the outcome/result of the training set are


---------------------------------



Evaluation

Include how you will evaluate your project.
Propose what your team thinks is a satisfactory project outcome (C grade) and an excellent project
outcome (A grade).

Rubric:

a) Does the proposal contain a high-level draft description of the general approach proposed
to address the questions?

b) Does it include preliminary plans for evaluation, data gathering?
I.e., how the team plans to answer the questions through experiments on data.

---------------------------------

We aim to achieve an accuracy of at least 60% in detecting emotions from both greyscale and realistic images (i.e. coloured and uncropped) in test data for an excellent outcome and at least 40% accuracy for a satisfactory outcome.

---------------------------------


Additional Resources

A list of resources you have/need to conduct the project.
This includes additional reading, software, datasets, code (Github link), etc.,
beyond your chosen dataset.  Are these resources public? How are you planning to get these resources?

Rubric

a) Does the proposal give a short list of resources the team plans to use to execute the project (inclusive of readings, software, datasets, etc.)?

b) Does the team describe any strategy for getting the resources?

---------------------------------

Dataset: 
https://www.kaggle.com/ananthu017/emotion-detection-fer
(Japanese)
https://paperswithcode.com/dataset/jaffe
(Chinese younger to older generation; need to register and sign Release Agreement.)
https://cloud.tsinghua.edu.cn/published/tsinghua-fed-images/home.md

Readings: 
https://web.stanford.edu/class/ee368/Project_Autumn_1617/Reports/report_pao.pdf 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S235291482030201X 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2781887/ 
https://www.apriorit.com/dev-blog/642-ai-emotion-recognition
http://cs231n.stanford.edu/reports/2016/pdfs/009_Report.pdf
https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fpsyg.2017.02175/full
https://www.ripublication.com/ijaer18/ijaerv13n8_119.pdf
https://www.ijitee.org/wp-content/uploads/papers/v9i2/B7070129219.pdf

Github: https://github.com/atulapra/Emotion-detection

Plan: 
1. Download FER dataset from kaggle and from other sources (as stated above)
2. Download real photos from google for additional test data 
3. Learn possible methods used for emotion detection from the readings (such as to firstly detect the presence of a face and to then extract key features and compare it to the face in the dataset)
4. Make the model based on the readings. 
5. Use the GitHub repository as a reference to one of the existing implementations and compare it with our chosen model’s implementation and performance. 


---------------------------------

Schedule / Role Assignment

A schedule of work indicating the dates by which you plan to complete components of the project.
Make sure the schedule is plausible.

You may find that a table format with the remaining weeks of the course helpful to describe this goal.

Rubric:

a) A schedule indicating dates by which the team plans to complete the project components?

b) An assignment of the team members to the deliverables (inclusive of peer reviewing duties)?

c) Is the schedule feasible given the timeline, expertise and load of the team members?

d) For projects with large data sources, does the team propose a way to scope the data or
problem accordingly to make it feasible?

---------------------------------

Week 5:
Gather data (all members)
Finalize project proposal (all members)
Submit project proposal (Yu Ko) (12/09/2021)
Learn how to process the image and the models (all members)

Week 6 - Week 7 (including recess week):
Do proposal peer review (all members)
Image pre-processing (Yu Ko, Drake)
Split dataset (training, validation, and evaluation / testing) (Peng Xiang)
Create model to detect face (detect face from photos and cropped based on the face location) (Putri, Celine)

Week 8 - Week 10: 
Make some models for emotion detections and do some comparison (with various methods) (all members, each will make at least 1 method)

Week 11 - mid week 12:
Finalize the model, do some test on realistic datasets (photo taken from phone etc) (all members)

Mid Week 12 - Week 13: 
Finalize report and project demo / showcase (all members)


---------------------------------